# Expense Tracker API Documentation


## Authentication

### Authenticate User

- **URL:** `/auth/authenticate`
- **Method:** `GET`
- **Description:** Authenticates a user.
- **Controller:** `authController.authenticateUser`

### Sign Up

- **URL:** `/auth/signup`
- **Method:** `POST`
- **Description:** Creates a new user account.
- **Controller:** `authController.signupUser`

### Log In

- **URL:** `/auth/login`
- **Method:** `POST`
- **Description:** Logs in a user.
- **Controller:** `authController.loginUser`

### Log Out

- **URL:** `/auth/logout`
- **Method:** `GET`
- **Description:** Logs out the currently authenticated user.
- **Controller:** `authController.logoutUser`

### Delete User

- **URL:** `/auth/deleteUser/:userId`
- **Method:** `DELETE`
- **Description:** Deletes a user account.
- **Controller:** `authController.deleteUser`


## Forgot Password

### Forgot Password

- **URL:** `/auth/forgotPassword`
- **Method:** `POST`
- **Description:** Initiates the forgot password process.
- **Controller:** `forgotPasswordController.forgotPassword`

### Reset Password

- **URL:** `/auth/resetPassword`
- **Method:** `POST`
- **Description:** Resets the password after the forgot password process.
- **Controller:** `forgotPasswordController.resetPassword`


## Categories

### Create Category

- **URL:** `/api/createCategory/:userId`
- **Method:** `POST`
- **Description:** Creates a new expense category for a user.
- **Controller:** `categoryController.createCategory`

### Update Category

- **URL:** `/api/updateCategory/:categoryId`
- **Method:** `PUT`
- **Description:** Updates an existing expense category.
- **Controller:** `categoryController.updateCategory`

### Get Categories For a User

- **URL:** `/api/getCategories/:userId`
- **Method:** `GET`
- **Description:** Gets categories for an existing user.
- **Controller:** `categoryController.getCategories`

### Delete Category

- **URL:** `/api/deleteCategory/:categoryId`
- **Method:** `DELETE`
- **Description:** Deletes a specific expense category.
- **Controller:** `categoryController.deleteCategory`

### Delete All Categories

- **URL:** `/api/deleteAllCategories/:userId`
- **Method:** `DELETE`
- **Description:** Deletes all expense categories for a user.
- **Controller:** `categoryController.deleteAllCategories`


## Expenses

### Create Expense

- **URL:** `/api/createExpense/:userId`
- **Method:** `POST`
- **Description:** Creates a new expense for a user.
- **Controller:** `expenseController.createExpense`

### Update Expense

- **URL:** `/api/updateExpense/:expenseId`
- **Method:** `PUT`
- **Description:** Updates an existing expense.
- **Controller:** `expenseController.updateExpense`

### Delete Expense

- **URL:** `/api/deleteExpense/:expenseId`
- **Method:** `DELETE`
- **Description:** Deletes a specific expense.
- **Controller:** `expenseController.deleteExpense`

### Delete All Expenses

- **URL:** `/api/deleteAllExpenses/:userId`
- **Method:** `DELETE`
- **Description:** Deletes all expenses for a user.
- **Controller:** `expenseController.deleteAllExpenses`

### Get Expenses

- **URL:** `/api/getExpenses/:userId`
- **Method:** `GET`
- **Description:** Gets all expenses for a user with filters.
- **Controller:** `expenseController.getExpenses`

### Get Expense

- **URL:** `/api/getExpense/:expenseId`
- **Method:** `GET`
- **Description:** Gets details of a specific expense.
- **Controller:** `expenseController.getExpense`
